## **Unreleased updates** - _TBD_

**What's New:** ✨

- Added a new database model to track downloaded trailers with specific metadata.
- Trailer downloads are now automatically tracked with their metadata.
- The `Scan Disk for Trailers` task now analyzes existing trailers and adds them to the database.
- A new task has been added to scan and refresh downloads for a specific media item.
- A new `Downloads` section has been added to the `Media Details` page to display the downloaded trailers.
- The `Media Details` page now has a refresh button to trigger a rescan of the media folder for new downloads.

**Other Changes:** ⚡

- `YouTubeId` for existing trailers is now extracted from the video metadata if possible. If not, it is set to `unknown0000`.

## **v0.4.3-beta** - _July 15 2025_

**Bug Fixes:** 🐛

- Refactored `YT-DLP Download` and `FFMPEG Conversion` methods to use `subprocess.run` instead of `subprocess.popen` to fix deadlocks. Fixes [#253](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/253){:target="_blank"}. 📂
- Fixed a bug that was applying `Audio Volume level` even when it is set to `100`.

**Other Changes:** ⚡

- Upgraded `fastapi` to version `0.116.1` and replaced the `standard` extra with `standard-no-fastapi-cloud-cli`.
- Updated `aiohttp` to version `3.12.14`.
- Improved logging for subprocess output in `YT-DLP download` and `FFMPEG conversion`. All logs are consolidated into a single `DEBUG` log.
- Health check endpoint used by `Docker` now looks for `NVIDIA GPU` (if enabled) once an hour!


## **v0.4.2-beta** - _July 15 2025_
**What's New:** ✨

- YouTube search now uses `1080` resolution as `2160` was causing some issues.
- Logs are now stored in database instead of text files. All Logs are saved to database, change filters to see them. Helps with better handling and supports tying them to media items in future.
- Logs are stored for 30 days. Old logs will be deleted as part of `Cleanup` task.
- Updated frontend `Logs` section to use logs from database along with tracebacks for errors and above.

**Bug Fixes:** 🐛

- Fixed a bug that was reporting trailer download as failed even though download succeeded. Fixes [#253](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/253){:target="_blank"}. 📂
- Fixed a bug with `FilesHandler` that scans for trailers.
- Fixed a bug in Media Details page that sometimes would not refresh the changes loaded from server.

**Other Changes:** ⚡

- All Scheduled Tasks are now async.
- Normalized database defaults for alembic migrations and added `ONDELETE` relationships.
- `glightox` version used in devcontainer has been corrected.
- Separated SQLModel base for AppLogs and App models.
- Corrected openapi path used in Docs from generator script.
- Setup some `PRAGMA` options on database engine to make relationships work and improve performance.

## **v0.4.1-beta** - _July 06 2025_
**What's New:** ✨

- Added extra delay between Trailer downloads to prevent account bans on new installs. New delays are as follows (along with an additional random delay of `0-60` seconds):

    | Download No | Delay     |
    |:-----------:|:---------:|
    | 1 - 9       | 2 mins    |
    | 10 - 49     | 4 mins    |
    | 50 - 99     | 6 mins    |
    | 100 - 199   | 7 mins    |
    | 200 - 499   | 9 mins    |
    | 1000+       | 10 mins   |

- Added a `Refresh` button on Media Library pages - Gets updated Media list from server.
- Media Files in Media Details page are now loaded on demand. You now have to click on the Files section to display them. Saves some IO bandwidth!
- Increased Session Timeout to 15 minutes (12 minutes + 3 minutes to extend).

**Bug Fixes:** 🐛

- Fixed a bug that added an incorrect end slash on Windows Path Mappings. Fixes [#250](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/250){:target="_blank"}. 📂
- Updated Default login details in [Docs](https://nandyalu.github.io/trailarr/getting-started/03-setup/){:target="_blank"} to change password to `trailarr`, as it was incorrectly said `admin`. Related to [#248](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/248){:target="_blank"}.
- Fixed a bug in Media Details page that sometimes would not refresh the changes loaded from server.

**Other Changes:** ⚡

- Added some extra details to Docs.


## **v0.4.0-beta** - _July 04 2025_
**What's New:** ✨

- Trailer download method has been updated to use the new download method by default. Old download method has been removed. Rewritten the other parts of download method that weren't updated in v0.3.0-beta. 🎉
- If a trailer conversion fails, app will now try to convert it again without hardware acceleration. This will help in cases where hardware acceleration fails due to unsupported codecs or other issues. ✨
- Trailer Profiles have been added for downloading trailers in different formats. Opening up new possibilities for downloading trailers in different formats. See [Docs](https://nandyalu.github.io/trailarr/user-guide/settings/profiles/){:target="_blank"} for more details. Fixes [#79](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/79){:target="_blank"} and [#218](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/218){:target="_blank"}. 🎥
- `Download` and `Search` buttons in `Media Details` now opens a dialog to select a `Trailer Profile`. 📥
- Video and audio formats in `Trailer Profiles` can be set to `copy` to avoid re-encoding the video and audio streams. This will speed up the download and conversion process. Use with `mkv` file format for better compatibility. Fixes [#204](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/204){:target="_blank"}. 🎞️
- Added a new setting in `Profiles` for `Include Words` to filter for certain words to exist in the trailer title. 📝
- Added `season_count` to the `Media` object to indicate the number of seasons for a series. This will help in filtering series based on the number of seasons, and can be used to download Season specific trailers for a Series (does not work yet, need more changes to make this work). 📺
- Updated `Path Mappings` to get root folders on connection validation and show a selection to select a path within container if it doesn't already exist!
- Added a `Getting Started` section with detailed instructions on installing Trailarr along with `Volume Mappings` and `Path Mappings`. Various other sections in the [Docs](https://nandyalu.github.io/trailarr/){:target="_blank"} have been rewritten/updated to reflect changes in the app. 📚


**Bug Fixes:** 🐛

- Fixed a bug that caused the `yt-dlp` version in `Settings > About` to not show the correct version. 🔄
- Fixed some bugs related to download method and setting media status. Fixes [#177](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/177){:target="_blank"}. 🐍
- Updated the `Docker Update Check` task to use github release tag instead of Dockerhub tags, as Dockerhub API is rate limited and causes the task to fail. ♻️
- Fixed a bug that caused episode files with `trailer` in the filename to be detected as trailers. Fixes [#235](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/235){:target="_blank"}. 📂
    Trailarr will now only consider a file as trailer if meets the below criteria:

    - The file should have `trailer` in the filename.
    - The file is not an episode file (i.e., it does not have `SXEX` (X can be 0-99) in the filename).
    - The file is in the `Media` folder or a subfolder that matches one of the `Trailer Folder Name` from `Profiles`.
- Fixed a bug that caused `Download` button in Media details page to not work in some cases. ⬇️

**Other Changes:** ⚡

- Docker healthcheck has been updated to include a check for GPU availability (only if hardware acceleration is enabled). This will help detect if GPU becomes inaccesible from container. 🖥️
    Tip: Set `restart` to `always` or `unless-stopped` in your docker-compose file to automatically restart the container becomes unhealthy. 🪫
- Made internal changes to the `Angular` app (Web UI) to improve performance and make it more maintainable and reusable. 🚀
- Updated Angular to v20.
- Navigating to a new page in Web UI will now reset the scroll position to the top of the page. 📜
- Added a new section for `Trailer Profiles` in `Settings` to manage the trailer profiles. 📂
- Trailer related settings that are configurable from `Trailer Profiles` are removed from `Settings > Trailer`. 🎛️
- Renamed the `Settings > Trailer` to `Settings > General` to better reflect the purpose of the settings. ⚙️
- Updated various python and npm dependencies to their latest versions. 🔄
- Swagger UI has been added to the [Docs](https://nandyalu.github.io/trailarr/references/api-docs/api-docs.html){:target="_blank"} for ease of access. 📖


## **v0.3.3-beta** - _March 28, 2025_
**What's New:** ✨

- Updated yt-dlp to latest version 2025.03.27. 🔄
- Added option to change the default username. Fixes [#160](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/160){:target="_blank"}. 🔑
- Updated internal field options so that browsers can detect them as password fields for `Current Password` and `New Password` in Password Update Dialog under `Settings > About`. 🔑
- `Settings > About` page will now show the current version of `yt-dlp` used by the app. 🔍

**Bug Fixes:** 🐛

- Fixed an issue with `yt-dlp` not updating on restart even if `Update Yt-dlp` is enabled. 🔄
- Fixed a bug that reset the `New Download Method` setting to `false` on restart. 🔄

**Other Changes:** ⚡

- Updated FastAPI from 0.115.11 to 0.115.12, npm from 11.1.0 to 11.2.0, Angular from 19.2.1 to 19.2.5 and various other python and npm dependencies.
- Refactored Dockerfile to remove `gosu` package and use `su` command instead for switching to non-root user. This fixes many CVEs related to `gosu` package, improving security. 🐳
- Moved scripts inside docker image from `/app` to `/app/scripts` to avoid conflicts with app files. 🗂️


## **v0.3.2-beta** - _March 09, 2025_
**What's New:** ✨

- Trailer filenames now support titles with non-ASCII characters. Restricted characters are `<>:"/\\|?*\x00-\x1F`. Fixes [#106](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/106){:target="_blank"}, [#141](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/141){:target="_blank"} 🌍
- Additional options added to use in `Youtube Search Query` and `Trailer Filename` fields. See [Docs](https://nandyalu.github.io/trailarr/setup/settings/#youtube-search-query){:target="_blank"} for available options. Fixes [#119](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/119){:target="_blank"} 📝
- Added Custom Filters to `Home`, `Movies` and `Series` pages. 📊
- Added a delay (between 100 - 150 seconds randomly) between trailer downloads to avoid rate limiting from YouTube. Fixes [#139](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/139){:target="_blank"} 🕒

**Bug Fixes:** 🐛

- Fixed a bug that deletes all media items in database when Arr Data Refresh task fails to get data from an arr API. 🐍
- Fixed a bug related to sorting with date values in `Home`, `Movies` and `Series` pages. 📅
- Fixed some bugs related to data refresh for keeping Frontend and Backend in sync. 🔄
- Fixed a bug related to `URL_BASE` setting not getting updated in the frontend. 🌐
- Added a check to verify downloaded trailer duration is within specified limits. Fixes [#128](https://github.com/nandyalu/trailarr/issues/128){:target="_blank"} 🕰️

**Other Changes:** ⚡

- Added extra attributes to the `Media` object for `clean_title`, `studio`, `title_slug`, `media_exists`, `media_filename`. 📝
- Some routes and components are now lazy-loaded to improve performance. 🚀
- Upgraded Angular from 19.1.4 to 19.2.1, FastAPI from 0.115.7 to 0.115.11 and various other python and npm dependencies. 🔄
- Updated Docs for `Youtube Search Query` and `Trailer Filename` fields, added a note regarding use of YouTube cookies for new installations. 📝


## **v0.3.1-beta** - _February 08, 2025_
**Bug Fixes:** 🐛

- Fixed a bug that deletes all media items in database when Arr Data Refresh task fails to get data from an arr API. 🐍


## **v0.3.0-beta** - _February 06, 2025_
**What's New:** ✨

- Added support for Hardware Acceleration using NVIDIA GPUs. See [Docs](https://nandyalu.github.io/trailarr/install/hardware-acceleration/){:target="_blank"} on how to enable! 🚀
- Completely rewritten the trailer download and conversion process for better performance and reliability. Can be enabled in `Settings > Experimental > New Download Method` 🔄
- Added batch edit in `Movies` and `Series` pages to quickly edit multiple items at once. Available options: Monitoring, Download, Delete 📦
- Added option for `Auto Search` 🔍 trailer in `Media Details` page, along with a `Save` 💾 option to save the updated trailer id without downloading. 🕵️
- Clicking on a file in `Files` section will now show options to ▶️ `Play`, ℹ️ `Video Info`, 🗑️ `Delete` and ✏️ `Rename` the file. 📁
- Added a task to scan all root folders for trailers. 🔍
- Trailer download status will be updated as they progress, instead of all at once in `Download Monitored Trailers` task. 🔄
- `av1` conversion has been disabled. If `av1` is selected, app will try to download in `av1` directly if available, else fallback to `vp9`. 🚫
- `pgs` subtitles are no longer supported. 🚫
- `Remove SponsorBlock` option has been removed. Use `Remove Silence` instead 🚫
- Added a new setting `Update Yt-dlp` to update yt-dlp to the latest available version during container startup when enabled. 🔄
- Added an experimental option to set `URL Base` for use with reverse proxies. 🔄

**Bug Fixes:** 🐛

- Tasks will be run in a different thread than the main process to avoid blocking the UI. 🧵
- Databse sessions will be retried if a write fails due to database being locked. 🗃️
- Youtube Trailer Search will also use the cookies file if provided.
- Trailers stuck on `Downloading` status will be reset during `Files Scan` task.
- Updated the Arr URL field in Add/Edit connections to make it work with reverse proxy URLs.
- Fixed a bug that ignored the Series trailers when `Trailers Folder Series` is disabled.



**Other Changes:** ⚡

- Trailarr [nightly](https://hub.docker.com/r/nandyalu/trailarr/){:target="_blank"} builds are now available for testing. 🌙
- Download trailer will show a [Debug] log for using cookies file.
- Added [Debug] logs for `Arr Data Refresh` task.
- `Trailer Cleanup` task will now run once a day instead of every 6 hours.
- Updated the `Arr Refresh Task` to process media in chunks to speed up the process.
- Updated the `Movies` and `Series` pages to keep them in sync with the server.
- `Settings > About` page will not include the number of trailers available in media folders.
- `Silence Removal` will now leave 2 extra seconds before trimming the video. 🎶
- Clicking on `API Key` in `Settings > About` will now copy the key to clipboard. 📋
- App will now use `/app/tmp` instead of `/tmp` as temporary directory for downloading and converting trailers. 📂
- Updated Docs for downloading trailer in a specific language.
- Added permanent invite link to [Discord server](https://discord.gg/KKPr5kQEzQ){:target="_blank"}.
- Updated FastAPI from 0.115.6 to 0.115.7, npm from 10.9.1 to 11.1.0, Angular from 19.0.1 to 19.1.4 and various other python and npm dependencies.
- Updated [Common Issues](https://nandyalu.github.io/trailarr/help/common/) with `File Access Slowness and Workaround` for Windows users, and `Cookies file not working`. 🐢
- Updated various other sections in the [Docs](https://nandyalu.github.io/trailarr/) to reflect the changes in the app.